README.md, before:

# SpaceNeovim - Spacemacs for Neovim [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Tehnix/spaceneovim.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Tehnix/spaceneovim)

SpaceNeovim is [Spacemacs](https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs) for Neovim. If you are unfamiliar with Spacemacs, you can read more about the motivation behind that on their website.

![Screenshot of SpaceNeovim](assets/Screenshot%202017-08-21%2003.46.23.png)

## Installation

Prerequisites:

- `git` on your path (`brew install git`)
- `nvim` on your path (`brew install neovim/neovim --head`)
- Neovim python bindings (`pip install neovim` or `pip3`)

SpaceNeovim is a configurable distribution like Spacemacs.

To start using SpaceNeovim you can use the following oneliner,

```shell
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tehnix/spaceneovim/master/install.sh)"
```

It will,

- Backup existing Neovim configuration to `.config/nvim.<date>.backup`
- Download a default `init.vim`
- Download `autoload/spaceneovim.vim`
- Set up [vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug)
- Clone down the [layers repository](https://github.com/Tehnix/spaceneovim-layers)
- Install default plugins

## Layers

Go to the [layers repository](https://github.com/Tehnix/spaceneovim-layers) for more information on the different layers.

To enable a layer, include it inside the `Layers()` function, by calling `Layer '<layer name>'`. A small example,

```viml
function! Layers()
  " Configuration Layers declaration.
  " Add layers with `Layer '+layername'` and add individual packages
  " with `ExtraPlugin 'githubUser/Repo'`.

  Layer '+core/behavior'
  Layer '+nav/buffers'
  Layer ...

  PrivateLayer '+lang/elm'

  ExtraPlugin 'liuchengxu/space-vim-dark'
  ExtraPlugin 'neovimhaskell/haskell-vim', { 'for': 'haskell' }
endfunction
```

The above also demonstrates `ExtraPlugin`, which will install plugins with `vim-plug`. The configuration is optional.

## Private Layers

If you want to manage your own layers, you can put them into `.config/nvim/spaceneovim-layers/private/` and load them like normal layers, except using `PrivateLayer` instead. E.g. `PrivateLayer '+lang/elm'`.

## Configuration

To set configuration values **before** layers and plugins load, set them in your `UserInit()`,

```viml
function! UserInit()
  " This block is called at the very startup of Spaceneovim initialization
  " before layers configuration.

  " Overwrite the leader key,
  SetLeader '<Space>'
  " Overwrite the layers repository,
  SetLayerRepo 'git@github.com:Tehnix/spaceneovim-layers.git'
endfunction
```

To set configuration values **after** layers and plugins load, set them in your `UserConfig()`,

```viml
function! UserConfig()
  " This block is called after Spaceneovim layers are configured.

  " This will set the background to 'dark', the theme to 'space-vim-dark' and the airline theme to 'violet' (airline argument is optional).
  SetThemeWithBg 'dark', 'space-vim-dark', 'violet'
  " Alternatively, if you don't want to set the background, use,
  SetTheme 'space-vim-dark', 'violet'
endfunction
```

The above `SetTheme <background color> <theme name> <airline theme>` is simply a convenience function. Similarly `SetLeader` allows you to set the key that activates `vim-leader`.

## Developing

If you want to know what happens in [`autoload/spaceneovim.vim`](https://github.com/Tehnix/spaceneovim/blob/master/autoload/spaceneovim.vim#L1), check out the beginning of the file for a brief introduction into what is going on in the script.

To easily test your changes it is recommended to symlink the various files into your `.config/nvim` folder. The ones you want to replace are

- `.config/nvim/spaceneovim-layers` to test layer changes
- `.config/nvim/autoload/spaceneovim.vim` to test core changes
- `.config/nvim/init.vim` to test changes to `vimrc.sample.vim`

### Using your own layer repository

If you want to develop/test out your own layers, there are four ways to do it:

1. Add your layer in `.config/nvim/spaceneovim-layers/private/` and load them via `PrivateLayer`.
2. Point to your own git repository with `SetLayerRepo`, e.g. `SetLayerRepo 'git@github.com:Tehnix/spaceneovim-layers.git'`. This should be set in `UserInit()`.
3. Manage the `spaceneovim-layers` directory yourself - the bootstrap process basically just checks if the directory exists, and if not it clones it down. Symlinking or putting in your own directory here will also work.
4. Add a layer from a specific folder on your computer with `SourcedLayer`, for example `SourcedLayer '/Users/myuser/.config/mylayers' '+cool/layer'`.

### Enable Debugging

You can enable debugging output by calling `EnableDebug` (or `EnableVerboseDebug`) in your `init.vim` file. This should be set in `UserInit()`.

### Pre commit linting

It is recommended to add the following to `.git/hooks/pre-commit`,

```bash
# Get the current dir
startDir=$(pwd)
# Get the project root
rootDir=$(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)

cd $rootDir

# Run vint
vint vimrc.sample.vim autoload/*.vim
```

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

## Troubleshooting

**Can't see colors in tmux:** This may be a problem with xterm-256 colors, as per issue #16 (thanks zacacollier) add the following your `tmux.conf` and restert your tmux with `tmux kill-server`,

```
set -g default-terminal "tmux-256color"
set -ga terminal-overrides ',xterm-256color:Tc'
```

Commit message:

Add asciicast showing installation, and add a ToC

README.md, after:

# SpaceNeovim - Spacemacs for Neovim [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Tehnix/spaceneovim.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Tehnix/spaceneovim)

SpaceNeovim is [Spacemacs](https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs) for Neovim. If you are unfamiliar with Spacemacs, you can read more about the motivation behind that on their website.

![Screenshot of SpaceNeovim](assets/Screenshot%202017-08-21%2003.46.23.png)

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Layers](#layers)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Developing](#developing)
  - [Enable Debugging](#enable-debugging)
  - [Pre commit linting](#pre-commit-linting)
- [License](#license)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Installation

Prerequisites:

- `git` on your path (`brew install git`)
- `nvim` on your path (`brew install neovim/neovim --head`)
- Neovim python bindings (`pip install neovim` or `pip3`)

SpaceNeovim is a configurable distribution like Spacemacs.

To start using SpaceNeovim you can use the following oneliner,

```shell
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tehnix/spaceneovim/master/install.sh)"
```

It will,

- Backup existing Neovim configuration to `.config/nvim.<date>.backup`
- Download a default `init.vim`
- Download `autoload/spaceneovim.vim`
- Set up [vim-plug](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-plug)
- Clone down the [layers repository](https://github.com/Tehnix/spaceneovim-layers)
- Install default plugins

You can check out the process in the Asciicast below,

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/zhmdP4lrR8u97vStTVz3a6B9q.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/zhmdP4lrR8u97vStTVz3a6B9q)

## Layers

Go to the [layers repository](https://github.com/Tehnix/spaceneovim-layers) for more information on the different layers.

To enable a layer, include it inside the `Layers()` function, by calling `Layer '<layer name>'`. A small example,

```viml
function! Layers()
  " Configuration Layers declaration.
  " Add layers with `Layer '+layername'` and add individual packages
  " with `ExtraPlugin 'githubUser/Repo'`.

  Layer '+core/behavior'
  Layer '+nav/buffers'
  Layer ...

  PrivateLayer '+lang/elm'

  ExtraPlugin 'liuchengxu/space-vim-dark'
  ExtraPlugin 'neovimhaskell/haskell-vim', { 'for': 'haskell' }
endfunction
```

The above also demonstrates `ExtraPlugin`, which will install plugins with `vim-plug`. The configuration is optional.

## Private Layers

If you want to manage your own layers, you can put them into `.config/nvim/spaceneovim-layers/private/` and load them like normal layers, except using `PrivateLayer` instead. E.g. `PrivateLayer '+lang/elm'`.

## Configuration

To set configuration values **before** layers and plugins load, set them in your `UserInit()`,

```viml
function! UserInit()
  " This block is called at the very startup of Spaceneovim initialization
  " before layers configuration.

  " Overwrite the leader key,
  SetLeader '<Space>'
  " Overwrite the layers repository,
  SetLayerRepo 'git@github.com:Tehnix/spaceneovim-layers.git'
endfunction
```

To set configuration values **after** layers and plugins load, set them in your `UserConfig()`,

```viml
function! UserConfig()
  " This block is called after Spaceneovim layers are configured.

  " This will set the background to 'dark', the theme to 'space-vim-dark' and the airline theme to 'violet' (airline argument is optional).
  SetThemeWithBg 'dark', 'space-vim-dark', 'violet'
  " Alternatively, if you don't want to set the background, use,
  SetTheme 'space-vim-dark', 'violet'
endfunction
```

The above `SetTheme <background color> <theme name> <airline theme>` is simply a convenience function. Similarly `SetLeader` allows you to set the key that activates `vim-leader`.

## Developing

If you want to know what happens in [`autoload/spaceneovim.vim`](https://github.com/Tehnix/spaceneovim/blob/master/autoload/spaceneovim.vim#L1), check out the beginning of the file for a brief introduction into what is going on in the script.

To easily test your changes it is recommended to symlink the various files into your `.config/nvim` folder. The ones you want to replace are

- `.config/nvim/spaceneovim-layers` to test layer changes
- `.config/nvim/autoload/spaceneovim.vim` to test core changes
- `.config/nvim/init.vim` to test changes to `vimrc.sample.vim`

### Using your own layer repository

If you want to develop/test out your own layers, there are four ways to do it:

1. Add your layer in `.config/nvim/spaceneovim-layers/private/` and load them via `PrivateLayer`.
2. Point to your own git repository with `SetLayerRepo`, e.g. `SetLayerRepo 'git@github.com:Tehnix/spaceneovim-layers.git'`. This should be set in `UserInit()`.
3. Manage the `spaceneovim-layers` directory yourself - the bootstrap process basically just checks if the directory exists, and if not it clones it down. Symlinking or putting in your own directory here will also work.
4. Add a layer from a specific folder on your computer with `SourcedLayer`, for example `SourcedLayer '/Users/myuser/.config/mylayers' '+cool/layer'`.

### Enable Debugging

You can enable debugging output by calling `EnableDebug` (or `EnableVerboseDebug`) in your `init.vim` file. This should be set in `UserInit()`.

### Pre commit linting

It is recommended to add the following to `.git/hooks/pre-commit`,

```bash
# Get the current dir
startDir=$(pwd)
# Get the project root
rootDir=$(git rev-parse --show-toplevel)

cd $rootDir

# Run vint
vint vimrc.sample.vim autoload/*.vim
```

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

## Troubleshooting

**Can't see colors in tmux:** This may be a problem with xterm-256 colors, as per issue #16 (thanks zacacollier) add the following your `tmux.conf` and restert your tmux with `tmux kill-server`,

```
set -g default-terminal "tmux-256color"
set -ga terminal-overrides ',xterm-256color:Tc'
```
